.I 207
.W
establishment of a cell line in vitro from a case of human lung cancer .
  1) one cell line has been established from the pneumonectomized       
specimen of a case with lung cancer, which was diagnosed as             
undifferentiated cell carcinoma and partially adenocarcinoma by its     
histological findings and was characterized with intracytoplasmic fat   
droplets in them .                                                      
  2) the morphological changes of the cells were repeated but they have 
been stabilized to their epithelial shapes after the 35th transfer . the
cell atypy of the culture was remarkable . phagocytosis of the cell line
has not been observed . it was characterized that the intracytoplasmic  
droplets found in the original cancer cells have been maintained in the 
cultured cells, even in their mitotic stage, throughout the cultural    
course .                                                                
  3) concerning the chromosomal constitution diploid cells were only 15 
per cent . the range of chromosome number did not show sharp peak,      
forming two groups of near diploid and near tetraploid ranges .         
  4) transplanting the cell to cheekpouches of golden hamsters, the     
implanted cells grew from the inoculum of 10 cells in conditioned animal
but did not show the invasiveness to neighbour tissue and metastasis to 
other organs .                                                          
.I 208
.W
factors influencing development of tumors in frogs .                    
  (1) study of 75 spontaneous tumors of vermont frogs showed three      
pathological grades of malignancy present.. aggressive renal            
adenocarcinoma in some 30 per cent, medium adenocarcinoma in 50 per     
cent, and lower grade mixed with tumors of undetermined origin in the   
remaining 20 per cent .                                                 
  (2) correlation with parasite infections (trematodes) was demonstrable
in only few cases in the kidney . hyperplasias and neoplasias grading   
into lung primary carcinoma have been found in the lung in r. pipiens . 
temperatures below 15 c. protected animals from lung as well as kidney  
disease . higher temperatures disturbed the host-parasite relationships 
and led to higher incidence of malignancy . in the bullfrog, precancer  
was clearly associated with the worm attachment discs .                 
  (3) other histological types of tumors in vermont frogs included      
lymphosarcomas, liposarcoma, mesothelioma, epithelioma, and adrenal and 
cartilage tumors of uncertain malignancy .                              
  (4) improved methods of obtaining tumor filtrates allowed greater     
probability of inducing malignancy with direct renal injection . in 106 
frogs 37 per cent developed histologically provable cancers in the      
ranges of three to seven months . twenty-six per cent showed some       
pre-cancer response and 43 per cent were negative . within the series   
receiving filtrate from high malignancy donors one group yielded 100 per
cent positive, the others 50 and 38 per cent, respectively .            
  (5) among animals injected with /low/ malignancy filtrate, fewer      
tumors resulted . some of these were clearly vesicular carcinomas and   
could be classed as lung tumors .                                       
  (6) improved tissue culture methods allowed explants to live in liquid
media under perforated cellophane up to one year . slower growth, aided 
by lower temperatures (16 c.) improved the microecology of cell types   
and allowed detailed daily observations of each cell's intranuclear and 
intranucleolar physiology for extended time-lapse cine-photography .    
  (7) mechanisms for malignant transformation are related to increased  
activity and production of nucleolar dna and rna . the infective dna    
hypothesis is not classical virus theory, but it does offer detailed    
support .                                                               
.I 209
.W
mitotic lymphocytes in primary tissue cultures of normal and neoplastic 
human lung .                                                            
  normal and tumor tissue explants from 33 resected human lungs were    
studied in vitro . lymphocyte mitoses were observed in tissue cultures  
derived from 12 of the lungs . the ability of lymphocytes to undergo    
mitotic division in human lung tissue culture has not been reported     
previously . in the autologous systems used lymphocyte mitoses were much
more common in cellular outgrowths derived from non-neoplastic tissue   
than they were in the outgrowths derived from cancer-bearing explants . 
no differences were observed in the total number of nondividing         
lymphocytes present in the non-neoplastic and neoplastic preparations . 
the in ritro systems employed are promising tools for further           
contributions to an already well established clinicopathologic          
relationship between lymphocytes and cancer cells .                     
  phase contrast and time-lapse cinephotomicrographic records were      
obtained of the mitotic process and special attention was paid to the   
structural details . certain findings were of particular interest,      
namely the formation of a dense chromatin ring during telophase, the    
variable occurrence of cytoplasmic bubbling, and the death of           
lymphocytes during early metaphase (/exploding/ metaphase) . an         
elaboration and discussion of these findings have been presented .      
.I 210
.W
studies on transformation of syrian hamster cells by simian virus 40    
(sv40).. acquisition of oncogenicity by virus-exposed cells apparently  
unassociated with the viral genome .                                    
  lines of syrian hamster lung and liver cells originally exposed as    
primary cultures to large doses of sv40 exhibited increased growth rate,
high plating efficiency, morphological transformation, and, in some     
instances, oncogenic potential after unusually long intervals . in at   
least two lines acquisition of oncogenic potential occurred             
independently of morphological transformation . in none of a total of 11
cell lines studied in detail was conclusive evidence for the presence of
the sv40 genome obtained .                                              
.I 211
.W
eye and kidney tissue reactions to heterologous anti-uveal antibodies . 
  the uvea, lens capsule and kidney glomerulus in the albino wistar rat 
have a common antigenic component(s) . the uvea and lens capsule in the 
pigmented bovine eye also have a common antigenic component(s) . these  
results were demonstrated by the immunofluorescence technique . the     
common antigenic sites in the uvea were assumed to be the basement      
membrane surrounding the vascular trees in the tissues . the possibility
of the basement membrane participation as an antigenic source for       
inducing sympathetic ophthalmia is discussed .                          
.I 212
.W
experiments dealing with the role played by the aqueous humor and retina
in lens regeneration of adult newts .                                   
  1. these three groups of experiments involve approximately 140 eyes of
adult newts, triturus v. viridescens . they were devised to examine     
what, if any, role the aqueous humor plays during lens regeneration from
the dorsal iris .                                                       
  2. many daily injections of aqueous humor from normal eyes were made  
in lentectomized eyes for as long as 96 days in some cases . as controls
some lensless eyes were daily injected with holtfreter's solution . in  
others aqueous humor was merely withdrawn .                             
  3) procedures for the injection experiments are difficult to control .
however, the most successful cases showed varying degrees of inhibition 
and retardation of lens regeneration .                                  
  4. pairs of eyes were united at large adjacent wound openings to      
provide a common reservoir of aqueous humor bathing both lenses and     
dorsal irises . in some cases the eyes were placed on the side of the   
body . in others more successful unions were made by fusing a           
transplanted eye to the right eye of a host .                           
  5. approximately three months after operation one of two large lens   
regenerates in a pair of perfectly fused eyes was removed . six weeks   
later a new large lens regenerate reappeared in most of the             
lentectomized units in the presence of the intact lens of the other unit
  6. there is a strong possibility that the more than normal amount of  
neural retina present provided a more powerful retinal factor for lens  
regeneration than the inhibiting influence of the intact lens in the    
environment .                                                           
.I 213
.W
correlation between the mast cells and histamine content of the eye in  
cattle .                                                                
  the authors have examined the mast cell content of the eyes of cattle 
and have established that most of the mast cells are contained in the   
conjunctiva, the optic nerve and the ocular muscles,. fewer occur in the
sclera and iris, and least in the ciliary body and choroid . cornea,    
lens and retina do not contain mast cells . the histamine content of the
ocular tissues and their mast cell contents generally run parallel .    
however, the cornea is exceptional in that its histamine does not occur 
in a bound state but in some form which is readily available to a mild  
process of extraction (tyrode solution at 4 c) .                        
.I 214
.W
studies in sickle cell anemia xxi. clinico-pathological aspects of      
neurological manifestations .                                           
  neurologic manifestations are frequent in patients who have sickle    
cell disease . these manifestations may be the earliest presenting signs
and symptoms and they are so variable that the patient may be           
erroneously diagnosed as having conditions such as meningitis,          
poliomyelitis, subdural hematoma, neoplasm, subarachnoid hemorrhage,    
lead encephalitis, subacute bacterial endocarditis, and congenital      
malformations of the brain . furthermore, development of these          
manifestations cannot be predicted on the basis of the type of crisis   
involved .                                                              
  prognosis following neurological involvement is unpredictable, but    
recurrent episodes, together with abnormal electroencephalographic      
readings suggest a poor outcome . such patients die or are the victims  
of rather severe neurological deficits .                                
  neurological examination of these patients suggests diffuse           
involvement of the cerebral hemispheres . examination of the            
pathological material, however, often fails to reveal thromboses . the  
striking findings are infarcts in the white matter and perivascular     
hemorrhages .                                                           
  the thesis that the abnormal neurological findings in these patients  
are actually due to sickle cell disease is supported by the fact that   
all such symptoms appear in association with clinical circumstances     
known to induce sickling . these include surgery and anesthesia, fever  
and infection .                                                         
.I 215
.W
attenuation curves of the human eye under normal and pathological       
conditions .                                                            
  a method is described which allows the determination of /attenuation  
curves/ of the human eye . those curves are obtained by plotting the    
critical depth of modulation (cmd) as a function of the critical fusion 
frequency (cff) . routine experiments were carried out for a 2 test     
field showing a sinusoidal periodical variation of its luminance,       
surrounded by an extensive area with a luminance equal to the average   
luminance of the test field . attenuation curves were obtained for      
normal observers under different experimental conditions and for a      
number of patients . it is shown that this method affords us information
which cannot be obtained by means of the classical methods for measuring
the cff .                                                               
.I 216
.W
central nervous system manifestations of periarteritis nodosa .         
  in the 114 cases of pathologically proved periarteritis nodosa        
reviewed, 53 patients (46 percent) had symptoms and signs of central    
nervous system or cranial nerve involvement . thirty-nine patients had  
both cerebral manifestations and neuropathy, 38 had neuropathy alone,   
and 14 had only cerebral symptoms and signs .                           
  the most common cerebral manifestation was that of mental derangement,
usually an organic psychosis or confusional state . headache,           
convulsions, blurred vision, vertigo, and sudden unilateral visual loss 
were the most common symptoms referable to the central nervous system . 
the most common abnormalities on examination were retinopathy,          
hemiparesis, and signs of a brainstem lesion . there was no difference  
in duration of life, after onset of disease, in those with and those    
without central nervous system involvement .                            
.I 217
.W
see-saw nystagmus an unusual sign of lesions near the third ventricle . 
  a case of see-saw nystagmus in a child with craniopharyngioma and     
bitemporal hemianopsia is described, and reference is made to previous  
case reports . the basis for this curious sign is not clear, but the    
site of the lesion must be considered to be in the region of the third  
ventricle, since bitemporal hemianopsia is a necessary part of the      
syndrome . the sign is not common but when present points to a lesion   
near the third ventricle .                                              
.I 218
.W
implications of gerstmann's syndrome .                                  
  of 465 consecutive patients subjected to a standardized battery of    
neuropsychological tests, 111 had one or more components of gerstmann's 
syndrome . each of these 111 patients had some evidence of organic brain
dysfunction in addition to gerstmann components . as the number of      
gerstmann components increased, the responsible brain lesions tended to 
be larger, more highly destructive of tissue, and to cause greater      
neurological impairment . every patient with four gerstmann components  
had associated evidence of severe impairment of brain functions and the 
lesion or underlying disease was likely to compromise survival of the   
patient . the syndrome is not to be regarded as an autonomous entity,   
but merges with numerous other neurological deficits, notably dysphasia 
in agreement with benton, we find no justification for singling out   
the four gerstmann components as a separate syndrome, unless one is also
prepared to recognize that any other arbitrary groups of concurrent     
deficits are also separate syndromes .                                  
  in at least three of 23 patients with all four gerstmann components,  
the angular gyrus, as shown by necropsy examination, was not involved by
the lesion . however, the probability that the left hemisphere contained
a lesion increased with the number of gerstmann components, and the     
probability of involvement of the left posterior parasylvian area also  
increased with the increase in the number of gerstmann components . with
two, three, or four gerstmann components, the lesions were never        
restricted to the angular gyrus but tended to spread widely over the    
parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes . as to localizing significance,
gerstmann's syndrome has approximately the same degree of cogency as    
dysphasia .                                                             
.I 219
.W
alterations of visual evoked response in the presence of homonymous     
visual defects .                                                        
  the visual evoked response (ver) was studied by means of computer     
averaging in 32 normal subjects, nineteen patients without visual       
disorder but with unilateral cerebral lesions, and 30 patients with     
homonymous visual field defects . an early negative-positive-negative   
complex was recorded between laterally placed occipital electrodes and a
vertex reference . latencies were prolonged in the hemianopic patients .
some amplitude asymmetries were noted in the brain-damaged controls but 
were more pronounced in patients with visual defects . the recordings in
the hemianopic patients were differentiated from those in both control  
groups by the presence of aberrant wave forms (2 cases),. prolonged     
latencies (3 cases),. and amplitude depression of greater then 50 per   
cent of the positive wave on the abnormal side (16 cases) . pathologic  
verification was obtained in three patients and demonstrated a          
correspondence between alterations in the ver and the presence of       
lesions of the geniculocalcarine system .                               
.I 220
.W
cerebro-vascular lesions and livedo reticularis .                       
  extensive livedo reticularis has been observed in one man and five    
women who have suffered from a series of cerebrovascular lesions . the  
neurological disabilities have included aphasia, homonymous hemianopia  
and hemiplegia but have been remarkable for the degree of recovery which
has occurred . it is presumed that the livedo which has been found in   
only one patient without neurological lesions is related to the         
cerebrovascular incidents . investigations have failed to show any      
evidence of polyarteritis nodosa, disseminated lupus erythematosus and  
thrombocythaemia and an arteritis of unrecognized type is suggested as  
the etiology .                                                          
.I 221
.W
seesaw nystagmus case report elucidating the mechanism .                
  the eighth recorded case of see-saw nystagmus is reported . features  
in this case are analyzed and evidence to suggest that this form of     
nystagmus is ocular rather than central in origin is offered . see-saw, 
nystagmus, unlike true vertical nystagmus, is not of itself indicative  
of a brain stem lesion .                                                
.I 222
.W
supratentorial paratransversal meningiomas .                            
  the author describes 6 cases of supratentorial paratransversal        
meningioma . clinically, the development of these tumours is slow and   
the chief neurological signs are.. homonymous hemianopia, contralateral 
hemiparesis and speech disorders when the tumour is on the dominant side
radiologically, carotid angiography permits identification of these   
tumours easily . surgically, the tumours were removed completely and,   
although in 2 cases the transverse sinus had to be resected, this caused
no damage . one patient, who was operated on twice and whose            
histological specimen on the second occasion showed that the meningioma 
was malignant, died seven months after the second operation . the other 
patients are well and free of neurological deficits from 1 to 12 years  
after operation .                                                       
.I 223
.W
life span and lymphoma-incidence of mice injected at birth with spleen  
cells across a weak histocompatibility locus .                          
  newborn cogenic c h mice receiving injections across a weak (h-i h-i )
histocompatibility barrier exhibited life-shortening and a high         
incidence of lymphomatous disease during mid-adult life . in control    
experiments (h-i h-i ) lymphomatous disease developed much later life . 
both mouse strains when not given injections as new-borns manifest only 
a negligible incidence of lymphoma or leukemia . these findings are     
variably interpretable in terms of oncogenic virology, and of the       
immunologic theories of aging and cancer by analogy with transplantation
disease mechanisms .                                                    
.I 224
.W
the heterogeneity of rheumatoid factors and the genetic control of      
polypeptide chains of globulin .                                        
  (1) evidence is presented that most rf proteins are heterogeneous in  
their antigenic composition although occasional ones are homogeneous and
thus resemble the paraproteins .                                        
  (2) studies pointing out some of the difficulties encountered with    
currently available preparations of polypeptide chains in the genetic   
mapping of globulin are described .                                     
.I 225
.W
progynon, a depot preparation with oestrogenic action, in the treatment 
of prostatic carcinoma .                                                
  a derivative of a natural oestrogen -dash oestradiol undecylate,      
progynon-depot -dash was given in depot form by injection to a group of 
patients with prostatic carcinoma . the study showed progynon-depot to  
reduce the excretion of androgen metabolites in the urine . the results 
suggest that the preparation reduced the testicular production of       
androgens but probably not that of the adrenal glands . the depot effect
and clinical action of the preparation are described briefly .          
.I 226
.W
/urinary 17-ketosteroid excretion study in radiation induced menopause  
in carcinoma breast./ .                                                 
  (1) urinary 17-ketosteroid estimation results are given in 11 patients
subjected to radiotherapeutic sterilisation .                           
  (2) a high dosage level was used in all these cases .                 
  (3) results indicate some suppression of ovarian function within 2    
weeks of sterilisation .                                                
.I 227
.W
prostatic cancer of a young person with primary hypogonadism .          
  the prostatic carcinoma of a 34 years old man with primary            
hypogonadism was presented . endocrine environment of relative          
estrogenic excess is suspected to have played the leading part in       
pathogenesis of this case .                                             
.I 228
.W
urinary excretion of neutral 17-ketosteroids and pregnanediol by        
patients with prostatic cancer and benign prostatic hypertrophy .       
  urinary neutral 17-ketosteroid fractions and pregnanediol excreted by 
21 patients with prostatic cancer, 17 patients with benign hypertrophy, 
and 59 clinically well subjects were assayed to determine whether       
differences exist .                                                     
  patients with prostatic cancer and those with benign hypertrophy      
excreted significantly less androsterone than the clinically well       
subjects . a disproportionately lower level of androsterone than        
etiocholanolone resulted in a significantly lower                       
androsterone/etiocholanolone ratio in both groups .                     
  the specificity of the findings is discussed . the lower levels of    
androsterone excreted by patients with benign hypertrophy were          
associated with an extended period of hospitalization . patients        
hospitalized less than 5 days excreted androsterone at levels not       
significantly different from the clinically well subjects .             
  lower levels of androsterone excreted by patients with prostatic      
cancer were not explained by the presence of metastasis, the duration of
hospitalization, loss of appetite, or other definable differences, when 
each was considered singly . the possible interrelationships of clinical
differences prevent assigning lower excretion levels to the cancer state
alone .                                                                 
.I 229
.W
i. urinary excretion of neutral 17-ketosteroids and pregnanediol by     
patients with breast cancer and benign breast disease .                 
  urinary levels of neutral 17-ketosteroid fractions and pregnanediol   
excreted by 114 women, 56 premenopausal and 58 postmenopausal, were     
determined . subjects studied were included in 4 premenopausal groups   
(breast cancer 6, benign breast disease 18, sick control 8, well control
24) and 3 postmenopausal groups (breast cancer 21, sick control 17, well
control 20) .                                                           
  levels of androsterone and etiocholanolone excreted by premenopausal  
patients with breast cancer were significantly less than levels excreted
by other premenopausal groups, and they did not differ significantly    
from levels excreted by postmenopausal patients with breast cancer .    
  disproportionately lower levels of the 11-desoxy-17-ketosteroids than 
11-oxy-17-ketosteroids excreted by premenopausal patients with cancer   
resulted in significantly lower ratios than those found in other        
premenopausal groups . ratios associated with premenopausal patients    
with cancer did not differ significantly from those of postmenopausal   
patients with cancer .                                                  
  lower levels of androsterone and etiocholanolone were not explained by
debilitation .                                                          
.I 230
.W
the morphologic demonstration of an alveolar lining layer and its       
relationship to pulmonary surfactant .                                  
  the presence of an alveolar lining layer was histologically           
demonstrated in animal lungs by ultraviolet microscopy . this layer     
appeared as a thin fluorescent line at the air-tissue interface .       
  the fluorescent lining layer could be abolished from lung sections by 
extraction with chloroform..methanol and was diminished by digestion    
with cl.welchii a-toxin lecithinase, suggesting that the structure was a
lecithin-containing lipid . an alveolar lining structure was also       
identified by the use of phosphatide and polysaccharide stains,         
suggesting that the lipid was a phosphatide, but that a                 
mucopolysaccharide component might also be present .                    
  bilateral cervical vagotomy resulted in diminution or loss of the     
fluorescent alveolar lines and abnormal surface tension properties of   
lung extracts . this suggested that the presence of the fluorescent     
material was associated with the surface activity of the lung .         
  alveolar lining structure could not be demonstrated by electron       
microscopy, even with special staining techniques .                     
.I 231
.W
experimental emphysema basis, review, and critique .                    
  normal lung structure has been described as a rich capillary bed in a 
finely partitioned airspace with unique surface-active effects .        
morphologic criteria of the lesions of human pulmonary emphysema include
evidence of destruction, residual vascular remnants, the absence of     
significant amounts of fibrosis, and altered conducting airways without 
anatomic obstruction .                                                  
  experimental studies relating to the pathogenesis of emphysema have   
been reviewed and critically evaluated . stress has been placed on the  
necessity to control the biologic factors influencing the action of any 
specific etiologic agent .                                              
.I 232
.W
alveolar lining cells and pulmonary reticuloendothelial system of the   
rabbit .                                                                
  complete freund's adjuvant was injected intravenously into rabbits and
the cellular response in the lungs was investigated . the population of 
cells within the alveolar spaces was contributed to by monocytes of the 
circulation, mesenchymal cells of the alveolar walls and epithelial     
lining cells of the alveoli . the abnormal epithelial lining during the 
proliferative phase was the result of an increase in size and number of 
the cells that line the normal alveoli . as healing progressed, a       
structurally normal alveolar lining was found .                         
.I 233
.W
time course of changes in surface tension and morphology of alveolar    
epithelial cells in co2-induced hyaline membrane disease .              
  atelectasis and hyaline membranes produced by exposure of guinea pigs 
to 15 percent co2 were found to be associated with disappearance of     
lamellar bodies in the large alveolar lining cells (granular            
pneumocytes) and an associated decrease in surfactant as indicated in   
the rise of minimal surface tension of the lungs . this process is      
limited to the uncompensated phase of respiratory acidosis and is       
reversed during the compensatory phase . the parallel time course in    
changes of surface tension and alterations of lamellar bodies in the    
granular pneumocytes provides additional evidence for the identification
of the latter as the cells responsible for the secretion of surfactant .
.I 234
.W
cortisone and atypical pulmonary /epithelial/ hyperplasia further       
studies including electron microscopy, tissue culture, animal           
transplantation and long term observations .                            
  previous work in rabbits showed that there was a proliferation of     
cells within pulmonary alveoli following intratracheal injection of     
nitric acid and that the proliferation was greatly enhanced by the      
administration of cortisone to the animals .                            
  electron microscopic observations indicated that these were           
morphologically large alveolar lining cells . tissue culture studies of 
damaged and normal lung with and without cortisone showed no evidence   
for a direct effect of the drug on the proliferation of these cells .   
  this observation, together with the knowledge that fibrosis was       
delayed in the cortisone treated animals, support the thesis that the   
cortisone effect is an indirect one . transplantation of damaged lung   
tissue to hamster cheek pouch failed to reveal evidence of growth .     
within the period of observation (99 to 420 days) there was evidence    
that the proliferation subsided considerably and no neoplasms developed 
.I 235
.W
some observations on myelin-glial relationships and on the etiology of  
the cerebrospinal fluid exchange lesion .                               
  the present paper presents cytological observations from developing   
kitten spinal cord and from spinal cord white matter reacting to injury 
it also presents some recent experiments on the mechanism of etiology 
of the csf exchange lesion . drawing on these various sources, the      
authors propose specific functions for some of the cell types present in
spinal cord white matter .                                              
.I 236
.W
lactate and pyruvate in the brain of rats during hyperventilation .     
  experiments on anesthetized and curarized rats under artificial       
ventilation show that during hyperventilation lactate and pyruvate are  
markedly increased both in blood and in brain . the lactate/pyruvate    
ratio which remains in blood the same as in control conditions, is      
systematically decreased in brain . during hypoxia (ventilation with 7  
oxygen in nitrogen) lactate rises markedly in blood and in brain . the  
lactate/pyruvate ratio which is strongly increased in blood shows a     
small rise in brain . these observations could indicate that a different
mechanism is responsible for the rise of lactate in brain during hypoxia
and hyperventilation . the important augmentation of lactate in brain   
during hyperventilation can give an explanation for the delayed rise    
which is seen in the lactate level in cerebrospinal fluid in these      
conditions .                                                            
.I 237
.W
cisternal fluid oxygen tension in man .                                 
  using a beckman micro-oxygen-electrode we have studied the oxygen     
tension simultaneously in the cisterna magna, the internal jugular vein 
and in arterial blood under various conditions . the results suggest    
that the cisternal oxygen tension to some degree reflects the average   
oxygen tension of the surrounding brain tissue and besides reflecting   
the available free oxygen to the brain it registrates changes of short  
duration in the cerebral blood flow .                                   
.I 238
.W
ventricular septal defect with prolapsed aortic valve and outflow tract 
obstruction .                                                           
  a case of ventricular septal defect combined with aortic valvular     
lesion and infundibular pulmonic stenosis is described . the right      
coronary cusp of the aortic valve, protruding through the ventricular   
septal defect, was demonstrated by right ventricular angiocardiography  
as a polyp-like mass in the right ventricular outflow tract . cardiac   
catheterization and angiocardiography showed progressive right          
ventricular outflow obstruction .                                       
.I 239
.W
functional adaptations of the right ventricular outflow tract in        
congenital heart disease .                                              
  functional adaptations in the right ventricular outflow tract have    
been discussed in relation to the development of acquired /pulmonary    
stenosis/ .                                                             
  it is concluded that physical forces as well as structural            
abnormalities may greatly influence both the clinical picture and the   
life history of many patients with congenital heart lesions .           
  the importance of further serial haemodynamic studies to provide a    
fuller understanding of the natural course of many lesions is stressed, 
so that better advice about prognosis and the optimal time for surgical 
treatment may be given .                                                
.I 240
.W
mitral atresia associated with pulmonary venous anomalies .             
  pulmonary venous anomalies were observed in 5 among 29 specimens with 
mitral atresia . in 4 of these 5 the anomalous pulmonary veins took the 
form of anomalous pulmonary venous connexion . in the remaining case the
pulmonary venous anomaly was represented by cor triatriatum . in 3      
(group i), mitral atresia and premature closure of the foramen ovale    
coexisted . the anomalous pulmonary venous connexions in this group     
provided collateral routes for the flow of pulmonary venous blood, and  
can be understood as developing en response to obstruction at the       
foramen ovale when the mitral valve is atretic . in the remaining 2     
(group ii) no such causative factor could be invoked . in one of the    
latter group total anomalous pulmonary venous connexion coexisted with a
common atrium . in the other, cor triatriatum coexisted with a patent   
foramen ovale .                                                         
  pulmonary venous obstruction occurred in each of the 5 cases .        
.I 241
.W
basal metabolic rate after cardiovascular surgery .                     
  the basal metabolic rate and respiratory equivalent of patients were  
determined during 8 days of convalescence from cardiovascular surgical  
operations performed with or without cardiopulmonary bypass . the       
results were compared in patients who had undergone operation for       
different diseases . metabolic rate in the majority of cases was        
increased but was commensurate with body temperature . some patients,   
particularly those requiring open operation on the aortic valve, had    
raised metabolic rates which could not be explained solely by pyrexia . 
  all types of patients in this series had elevated respiratory         
equivalents which persisted throughout convalescence . these equivalents
were greater in patients treated with cardiopulmonary bypass than in    
patients treated without bypass .                                       
.I 242
.W
surgical treatment of ventricular septal defect .                       
  the surgical technique of closure of ventricular septal defects in 80 
cases (37 cases of isolated defects and 43 cases of tetralogy of fallot)
is discussed in the light of the follow-up results . the use of a patch 
for closure has reduced the incidence of recurrence to 4 percent, com-  
pared with 18 percent when direct suture was performed . the incidence  
of heart block also decreased from 15 percent, when direct suture was   
used, to 4 percent with a patch . the transatrial approach is preferred 
for isolated ventricular septal defects,. the ventricular approach is   
preferred for cases with tetralogy of fallot . in cases combined with   
aortic insufficiency only small defects are closed through the aorta .  
larger defects are closed in the usual way at a first stage operation,  
and a total valve prosthesis is introduced at a second operation . there
was an operative mortality of 6 percent in isolated ventricular septal  
defects, compared with 27 percent in cyanotic patients with tetralogy of
fallot .                                                                
.I 243
.W
some hemodynamic observations in congenital heart disease with special  
reference to pressure curves in ductus arteriosus .                     
  hemodynamic observations in 100 congenital heart disease cases are    
made based on data in the department of pediatrics, kyoto university    
between may 1961 and december 1963 . we have classified these 100 cases 
according to the malformation from the hemodynamic view point . our     
cases were classified into the following groups .                       
  (1) ventricular septal defect                             35 cases    
      small ventricular septal defect                       20          
      moderate ventricular septal defect                     9          
      marked ventricular septal defect                       4          
      ventricular septal defect with pulmonary stenosis      2          
  (2) patent ductus arteriosus                              21          
  (3) atrial septal defect                                  19          
      atrial septal defect                                  14          
      atrial septal defect with pulmonary stenosis           5          
  (4) pulmonary stenosis                                     5          
  (5) tetralogy of fallot                                   14          
  (6) aortic stenosis                                        3          
  (7) aortic insufficiency                                   3          
      aortic insufficiency with ventricular septal defect    2          
      aortic insufficiency with pulmonary stenosis           1          
  in sonre small ventricular septal defect, we tried the vasoactive     
drugs . phenylephrine was injected slowly into the right ventricle via  
the catheter, a rapid rise in femoral arterial pressure associated with 
bradycardia and intensiffication of the systolic murmur was observed .  
after the administration of amyl nitrite, a rapid fall in femoral       
arterial pressure associated with tachycardia and softening of the sys- 
tolic murmur was observed .                                             
  in patent ductus arteriosus, when the cardiac catheter is withdrawn   
slowly from the aorta into the pulmonary artery, the outstanding        
pressure curve is recorded in ductus arteriosus . the systolic pressure 
curve in the ductus arteriosus is the same as the systolic pressure in  
the aorta and the diastolic pressure curve in the ductus arteriosus has 
a diastolic dip followed by a late diastolic pressure peak .            
  in patent ductus arteriosus, when the cardiac catheter is withdrawn   
from the left pulmonary artery to the right ventricle, the pressure     
curve reveals a considerable characteristic rise in pulmonary arterial  
pressure which is regarded as an effect of the transmission of systemic 
pressure through the ductus arteriosus .                                
.I 244
.W
a study on the direction of inscription of the vectorcardiographic      
t-loop in left and right ventricular hypertrophy .                      
  (1) frank lead vectorcardiogram was recorded in 30 normal persons and 
in 323 cases with hypertension and acquired and congenital heart disease
the t-loop was classified into 8 types according to the directions of 
inscription in 3 planar projections . frequently observed types were    
examined with the direction of the maximal t vector .                   
  (2) in majority of normal cases, the t-loop was inscribed             
counterclockwise in horizontal and clockwise in sagittal planes .       
  (3) in left ventricular hypertrophy, abnormal inscription of the      
t-loop was observed with abnormal rightward and superior deviation of   
its maximal vector and the t-loop oriented more than 120 in horizontal  
plane was usually accompanied by abnormal inscription . percentage of   
abnormal inscription was higher in cases with cardiac complaints .      
  (4) in right ventricular hypertrophy, directional change of the t-loop
was relatively small but changes in inscription of it were common . the 
t-loop was always inscribed abnormally in cases with abnormal           
inscription of the qrs-loop .                                           
  (5) the concept of the polar vector was found to be valuable in       
studying the inscription and the direction of the t-loop . significance 
of changes in inscription of the t-loop was discussed .                 
.I 245
.W
pulmonary vascular plexiform lesion pathogenetic studies .              
  an attempt was made to test the theory that in pulmonary arterial     
hypertension, the plexiform lesion is a jet lesion beyond points of     
arterial stenosis resulting from nonspecific intimal thickening .       
  in 39 subjects with such congenital communications as are associated  
with pulmonary arterial hypertension, the lungs were studied            
histologically . in each, there was an additional element of pulmonary  
venous obstruction . it is likely that in the absence of pulmonary      
venous obstruction, adult patients with only the congenital             
communication would have developed plexiform lesions .                  
  in the three adult patients in the study, no plexiform lesions were   
identified . among the 36 infants or children, one subject showed       
plexiform lesions, a 53-day-old girl with mitral atresia, ventricular   
septal defect, and patent ductus arteriosus .                           
  while the findings in the three adult subjects support the theory     
regarding the genesis of plexiform lesions, the findings in the one     
infant with plexiform lesions appear to contradict it .                 
.I 246
.W
renal hemosiderosis (blue kidney) in patients with valvular heart       
disease .                                                               
  anatomic evidence of intravascular hemolysis, i.e., renal             
hemosiderosis, was found at necropsy in 4 of 132 patients who died of   
severe valvular heart disease . the aortic valve in each of these 4     
patients was heavily calcified, immobile, and portions of the calcific  
deposits were in direct contact with the blood . hemolysis in each      
patient was attributable to direct trauma to erythrocytes traversing the
stenotic valve, and the frequency of trauma was increased by an         
associated regurgitant flow . renal hemosiderosis was not observed in   
any patient with isolated mitral valve disease, or in those with        
combined mitral and tricuspid valve malformations .                     
.I 247
.W
tumor scanning with radioactive cesium .                                
  fourteen patients with cancer were scanned 10 minutes to 48 hours     
after injection of radioactive cs. and satisfactory scans of the tumors 
were obtained in seven . positive scans were obtained in large,         
superficial tumors, in a pulmonary lymphoma, and in a carcinoma of the  
upper third of the esophagus . the negative scans were all in abdominal 
tumors . correlations were made with data obtained from external        
counting and by well scintillation counting of biopsy specimens . two   
modes of uptake are suggested.. (a) early uptake due to vascularity and 
probably not proportional to stable cesium content.. and (b) a later    
uptake based upon greater alkali metal content of tumors than of normal 
tissue .                                                                
.I 248
.W
lung scanning with colloidal risa .                                     
  the use of colloidal risa injected intravenously in a particle size of
10.50 microns followed by lung photoscanning offers a practical,        
atraumatic method of visualizing pulmonary artery occlusions in the dog 
the fact that the particles have a relatively short biological        
half-life appears to decrease the radiation dose delivered and the      
duration of occlusion of pulmonary capillaries as compared to ceramic   
microspheres . work is in progress to apply this technique to the study 
of pulmonary artery occlusion in the human .                            
.I 249
.W
multivariate comparison of results of treatment in chronic lymphocytic  
and chronic granulocytic leukemia .                                     
  the results of several clinical trials have been analyzed by          
multivariate procedures which rely completely on laboratory findings and
do not involve scoring specific changes or subjective evaluations .     
statistically significant differences among drugs after three months of 
therapy were demonstrated . a relationship between the multivariate     
method and the subjective evaluation was demonstrated which indicates   
that if the subjective evaluation is an estimate of the physiologic     
state or prognosis of the patient, then so are the completely objective 
techniques used here .                                                  
.I 250
.W
oxacillin--apparent hematologic and hepatic toxicity .                  
  bone marrow depression and hepatocellular dysfunction developed in an 
allergic woman receiving 3.0 gm. of sodium oxacillin by mouth daily for 
nearly three months . discontinuing the drug and administering          
corticosteroids and antibiotics resulted in apparent recovery . the     
toxic potentialities of oxacillin should be appreciated .               
.I 251
.W
drugs and neonatal jaundice .                                           
  this paper is not intended as an exhaustive review of bilirubin       
metabolism nor of the many factors which may result in exaggerated      
physiologic jaundice.. for such a review the interested reader is       
referred to the excellent articles by zuelzer and brown . brief mention 
has been made of the mechanism by which certain drugs may contribute to 
the development of hyperbilirubinemia . a few drugs, the water-soluble  
vitamin k derivatives, sulfasoxazole (gantrisin), the salicylates, and  
novobiocin have been unequivocally shown to affect adversely the newborn
infant's ability to handle bilirubin . in time other compounds will     
definitely be incriminated .                                            
  it is important to remember that the administration of a drug to a    
mother just prior to delivery may result in appreciable concentrations  
of the compound in the infant's serum, and that drugs administered to   
the nursing mother may be excreted in breast milk and thereby absorbed  
by the infant . careful consideration of the drugs given not only to the
newborn but also to the mother is therefore essential if we are to avoid
what may be termed iatrogenic hyperbilirubinemia .                      
.I 252
.W
amputation in patients over 80 years of age .                           
  although patients over 80 years of age can be expected to have poor   
physical reserve and many co-existing diseases, our observations show   
that nevertheless they can be subjected to surgical procedures without  
undue mortality . the mortality rate can be maintained at a minimum if  
the surgeon considers the factors that contribute to its increase in the
elderly . this necessitates.. 1) careful evaluation of the patient and  
treatment of any pre-existing or co-existing disease, 2) proper control 
of electrolytes, 3) avoidance of infection, 4) prompt correction of any 
postoperative hypotension, 5) postoperative pulmonary ventilation and   
tracheal cleansing, and 6) avoidance of prolonged surgical procedures . 
  a group of 26 patients past the age of 80 years underwent amputation  
of a lower extremity, without undue mortality (9 deaths) .              
  lumbar sympathectomy is not considered advisable in these aged pa-    
tients .                                                                
  the standard mid-thigh operation can be questioned in the younger     
patient, but it is the procedure of choice for removal of a gangrenous  
extremity in patients over 80 years of age .                            
.I 253
.W
radical operation for ventricular septal defect in infancy .            
  ventricular septal defect is the most common congenital anomaly of the
heart in infancy, and has a poor prognosis . we have operated upon 18   
infants all under one year of age for ventricular septal defect . there 
has been successful repair in 16 cases .                                
  at present, hypothermia with a surface cooling method has proved to be
superior to the artificial heart-lung machine because of the simplicity 
and the good operative results with its use . in addition, early        
operation during the infantile period will cause less psychological     
impact on infants . these advantages are sufficient for us to advocate  
radical operation of ventricular septal defect in infancy, even         
including the severely ill children .                                   
.I 254
.W
specific suppression of tumor growth by isolated peritoneal macrophages 
from immunized mice .                                                   
  methods were presented by which macrophages may be isolated from the  
peritoneal cell population of mice . these cells, and for comparison    
peritoneal lymphocytes and lymph node cells, were tested for immunologic
activity by injecting a mixture of the test cells and tumor cells       
subcutaneously into irradiated mice . each cell type, when obtained from
immunized mice, was capable of suppressing the growth of the specific   
tumor cells . the results are discussed with respect to a possible      
specific immunologic function for macrophages in graft rejection .      
.I 255
.W
effect of heterologous antiserum and complement on glycolysis of tumor  
cells .                                                                 
  the effect of heterologous antiserum and complement on glucose        
metabolism of rat ascites tumor cells was examined to clarify the       
mechanism of the cytotoxic effect of antibody .                         
  1. lactate-production of the target cells was inhibited by the        
cooperation of antiserum and complement, while no inhibition was        
observed when the cells were subjected to either antiserum or complement
alone . the inhibition of lactate-production was observed under both    
acrobic and anacrobic conditions . no effect of the antiserum and       
complement was observed on the oxygen consumption of the cells .        
  2. the amount of antiserum necessary for the inhibition of            
lactate-production of the cells was determined in the presence of a     
definite amount of complement, and it was found that the degree of      
inhibition was not in parallel with the concentration of antiserum      
beyond a certain threshold . on the other hand, a parallelism was       
observed between the amount of complement and the rate of inhibition of 
lactate-production when different amounts of complement were added to a 
definite amount of antiserum .                                          
  3. similar inhibitory effects of the antiserum and complement on      
lactate-production of the cells from glucose, fructose-1, 6-diphosphate,
and pyruvate suggested that the inhibition occurred toward the final    
step of glycolytic process of the cells .                               
.I 256
.W
soluble tissue antigens in human brain tumor and cerebrospinal fluid .  
  an a-2 globulin antigen present in human glioblastomas and            
immunologically identical with antigens present in human brain, liver,  
spleen, and metastatic carcinoma cyst fluid has been described . this   
protein antigen is not present in plasma, wbc, or normal csf . it has   
been demonstrated in the csf of three of 27 patients with tumors of the 
central nervous system . when present, it may represent a specific      
tissue protein fraction contributed by either the tumor itself or the   
adjacent cns tissue . the major protein components of normal and        
abnormal csf are derived from, or, at least, antigenically identical to,
the plasma proteins .                                                   
.I 257
.W
the apparent immunofluorescence of tissue mast cells .                  
  both rat mast cells and rat cosinophils exhibited fluorescence in blue
violet light after treatment with fitc-conjugated rabbit anti-rat       
g-globulin and in each cell this fluorescence was immunologically       
nonspecific .                                                           
  whereas cosinophils fluoresced after treatment with fluorescein alone,
mast cells fluoresced only after treatment with a protein conjugate     
containing g-globulin .                                                 
  the phenomenon was observed in cells from different organs and the    
fluorescence was seen to be associated with the cytoplasmic granules    
normally present in these cells .                                       
.I 258
.W
the determinants of cerebrospinal fluid po2 the effects of oxygen and   
carbon dioxide breathing in patients with chronic lung disease .        
  the lumbar cerebrospinal fluid po2 of some hypoxemic hypercapnic      
patients with chronic lung disease is the same as that of patients      
without chronic lung disease . breathing 95 oxygen with 5 carbon dioxide
increased lumbar cerebrospinal fluid po2 more than breathing 95 oxygen  
with 5 nitrogen . the change in cerebrospinal fluid po2 is closely      
related to the change in arterial pco2, and this relationship is similar
to the relationship between arterial pco2 and cerebral blood flow in    
patients with and without hypercapnia . interpretation of these         
observations must be qualified by the following.. cisternal             
cerebrospinal fluid po2 differs from lumbar cerebrospinal fluid po2 in  
its response to breathing oxygen with carbon dioxide,. regulation of    
blood flow to the spinal cord and nerve roots is not known to be        
comparable to that of the brain,. and factors other than blood flow may 
have contributed to the changes of cerebrospinal fluid po2 .            
.I 259
.W
the behavior of lymphocytes in primary explants of human lung cancer in 
vitro .                                                                 
  the activity of lymphocytes within outgrowths from explanted tissue   
fragments of 20 human lung cancers has been studied . the study included
cancer-bearing tissue explants from all cases and noncancerbearing lung 
tissue from 4 of the 20 cases . five major categories of lymphocytic    
behavior were derived from the study, namely.. (1) emigration and       
migration of lymphocytes from the explant,. (2) clustering of           
lymphocytes around /target/ cells,. (3) ameboid transformation of       
lymphocytes,. (4) lymphocytic congregation,. and (5) emperipolesis .    
criteria for these different lymphocytic activities have been amplified 
or introduced .                                                         
  findings of particular interest were.. (1) the frequency of both via  
ble and nonviable lymphocytes within the vacuoles of other cells . this 
observation is considered to be an absolute criterion for the recogni-  
tion of emperipolesis . a subsequent /inclusionbody/ appearance of the  
dead lymphocytes has been observed . (2) the intimate relationship of   
ameboid forms of lymphocytes to selected cells, resulting in a          
juxtanuclear and frequently unipolar crowding of one cell by numerous   
lymphocytes while nearby cells were totally devoid of ameboid           
lymphocytes . reasons are given to support the impression that this     
phenomenon is re lated to sensitization . there is also the possibility 
that the phenomenon may indicate that the lymphocyte is /conditioned/ . 
(3) the apparent entry of the lymphocyte into the cell has been recorded
by timelapse cinematography .                                           
  a lymphocyte relationship to cancer cells was infrequently found      
although explants of 15 of the 20 cases produced identifiable cancer    
cells and lymphocytes emigrated from the explants of all 20 cases . it  
is not apparent from this limited study whether this is a significant   
finding .                                                               
.I 260
.W
ventricular septal defect with aortic insufficiency a clinical and      
hemodynamic study of 18 proved cases .                                  
  eighteen patients with the combination of ventricular septal defect   
and aortic insufficiency were studied . nine also had infundibular      
pulmonary stenosis . seventeen were treated by open-heart operations .  
  the physical findings were those of a typical ventricular defect      
murmur and thrill together with an aortic insufficiency blow and a wide 
pulse pressure . a systolic murmur at the upper left sternal border with
thrill is strongly suggestive of the additional lesion of infundibular  
pulmonary stenosis, but the presence or absence of infundibular         
pulmonary stenosis was indicated most accurately at cardiac             
catheterization and on inspection at operation . it was not of          
sufficient severity for signs of additional right ventricular           
hypertrophy to appear on the electrocardiogram .                        
  retrograde aortography serves to demonstrate the severity of the      
aortic regurgitation .                                                  
  the problem of the surgical correction of these lesions will be the   
subject of a separate communication .                                   
.I 261
.W
radioisotope photoscanning as a diagnostic aid in cardiovascular disease
a safe, simple method for diagnosing pericardial effusion and aneurysm .
  radioisotope scanning is a safe, simple, and useful method for the    
diagnosis of pericardial effusion and aortic aneurysm . the whole-body  
radiation dose, approximately 25 millirads from 300 of i 131-sodium     
iodipamide, is no greater than the dose received from a standard        
posteroanterior chest roentgenogram or a blood volume determination .   
there are no side effects or complications from the procedure, and it is
well tolerated by the patient . the scan can be repeated at intervals to
assess progress of the disease or response to treatment . cardiovascular
scanning with radioactive isotopes can be recommended as a useful and   
safe diagnostic tool .                                                  
.I 262
.W
studies of hematology and bone marrow morphology in vitamin e-deficient 
pigs .                                                                  
  forty-four pigs were used in two experiments whose purpose was to     
produce a deficiency of vitamin e . the anemia and changes in bone      
marrow morphology occurring in the vitamin e-deficient state are        
described . the hematologic disorders include low hemoglobin and        
hematocrit values, leucocytosis and granulocytosis . nuclear            
abnormalities were observed in the erythroid precursors in the bone     
marrow, many of the cells being multinucleated . giant multinucleated   
cells of megakaryocyte type were frequently found .                     
.I 263
.W
significance of blood groups in homotransplantation of marrow in the dog
  ten dogs were given 1,500 r whole-body irradiation and an infusion of 
allogeneic marrow from a donor matched with respect to six erythrocyte  
antigens . methotrexate was given to reduce secondary syndromes . four  
dogs survived . in a similar experiment with 10 dogs, in which no effort
was made to match donors and recipients, three dogs survived . it was   
concluded that matching of donor and recipient for these six red cell   
antigens did not increase significantly the longterm survival rate of   
lethally irradiated dogs with allogeneic marrow grafts .                
.I 264
.W
radioautographic studies of bone marrow lymphocytes in vivo and in      
diffusion chamber cultures .                                            
  radioautography with tritiated thymidine has been utilized to examine 
the turnover rate and origin of small lymphocytes in the bone marrow of 
the guinea-pig .                                                        
  very few marrow lymphocytes were initially labeled by a single        
injection of tritiated thymidine, but thereafter the number of labeled  
lym phocytes rapidly increased to high maximum levels at 3 days .       
analysis of the labeling curves and grain counts indicates that the     
population of marrow lymphocytes is maintained in a dynamic steady state
with an average turnover time of 3 days or less .                       
  suspensions of bone marrow cells were isolated from the circulation   
within intraperitoneal diffusion chambers after short-term labeling with
tritiated thymidine in vivo . although very few small lymphocytes were  
labeled when introduced into the diffusion chambers, a considerable     
percentage became labeled during the subsequent culture period .        
  tritiated thymidine was also administered intravenously whilst        
excluded from one hind limb by the application of an occlusive          
compression bandage for 20 minutes . very few labeled small lymphocytes 
were found after 72 hours in the tibial marrow of the initially occluded
limb, whereas the normal high percentage was labeled in the control     
tibial marrow .                                                         
  these experiments do not demonstrate any large-scale influx of small  
lymphocytes from the blood stream into the marrow parenchyma . they     
suggest that newly formed small lymphocytes appear in the marrow as a   
result of the division of locally situated precursor cells, but the     
mechanism of intramedullary lymphocytopoiesis is uncertain .            
/transitional/ cells, intermediate in morphology between blast cells and
small lymphocytes, synthesize dna and are actively proliferative, but   
they do not appear to account fully for the rate of lymphocyte          
production .                                                            
  certain large, undifferentiated labeled cells appeared in the bone    
marrow as a result of hematogenous migration . some implications of     
these findings are discussed .                                          
.I 265
.W
autoradiographic study on the origin and fate of small lymphoid cells in
the dog bone marrow.. effect of femoral artery clamping during in vivo  
availability of h3-thymidine .                                          
  the origin and fate of small lymphoid cells in the dog bone marrow    
were studied autoradiographically by observing the effect of clamping of
the femoral artery during in vivo availability of h3-thymidine . heavily
labeled small lymphoid cells appeared in the bone marrow of the clamped 
leg 3 hours after injection of the tracer and increased in number up to 
6 days . the labeling indices of these cells, however, were             
significantly lower than those of control marrow . a possible           
interpretation is that dog bone marrow contains two populations of small
lympho id cells, one migrating into the marrow via the blood stream, the
other originating from local precursor cells within the marrow . there  
was no evidence for a transformation of migrated small lymphoid cells   
into erythroblasts during the first 48 hours after injection of         
h3-thymidine .                                                          
.I 266
.W
the lymphocyte in guinea-pig bone marrow .                              
  the structure and distribution of lymphocytes in the bone marrow of   
normal 400 g guinea-pigs have been studied by means of light microscopy,
electron microscopy, and radioautography . the study of structural      
organization by all three techniques confirms the morphological identity
of the marrow small lymphocytes with small lymphocytes in other         
situations and affords added proof of the presence of a series of cells 
transitional in appearance between small lymphocytes and blast cells .  
unlike the small lymphocytes, transitional cells show evidence of dna   
synthesis . marrow small lymphocytes and transitional cells are         
diffusely scattered throughout the parenchyma, often situated in close  
proximity to the sinusoidal endothelium . they are also found           
characteristically concentrated within some of the sinusoids,. this is  
termed /lymphocyte loading/ .                                           
  the findings are discussed with particular reference to the possible  
origin, interrelationship and fate of these cells .                     
.I 267
.W
surgical treatment of atrial septal defect under hypothermia .          
  the technique of inflow occlusion under 30 c. hypothermia was adopted 
for direct visual correction in 133 consecutive cases of atrial septal  
defect of the secundum variety and the associated anomalies .           
  the use of extracorporeal circulation combined with hypothermia was   
reserved for the repair of two cases of ostium primum defects .         
  the over-all operative mortality was 4 .                              
  post-operative evaluation showed that the results have been good in   
almost all patients, including those with pulmonary hypertension .      
  since an ostium primum defect requires cardio-pulmonary bypass for its
closure, the pre-operative recognition of the defect is highly desirable
in the selection of patients for operation and in planning the procedure
itself .                                                                
  the information derived from the clinical examination and appropriate 
diagnostic studies has been found to be consistently accurate in the    
pre-operative differentiation of the primum from the secundum defect .  
therefore, the unexpected discovery of a primum defect at operation was 
not a problem .                                                         
  in our experience, open-heart surgery under 30 c. hypothermia for the 
repair of an atrial septal defect of the secundum type and the          
associated anomalies is a safe and practical technique and effectively  
corrects the anomaly with minimal risk .                                
.I 268
.W
internal cooling for general hypothermia .                              
  a further presentation is offered on the advantageous use of          
intragastric temperature control as an adjunct in general hypothermia . 
a device is described which accomplishes this end with no encountered   
deleterious side effects, minimal technical involvement, and minor      
expense . observations are recorded on rates of temperature change      
according to sex, weight, and type of surgery performed .               
.I 269
.W
late effects of regional renal hypothermia .                            
  in summary, one can safely conclude that no deleterious effects were  
created in dogs observed over a period of 3 years following renal       
ischemia of 6 hours' duration protected by hypothermia . the blood      
pressure failed to climb, there was no evidence of azotemia, and careful
microscopic studies failed to reveal histological evidence of renal,    
vascular or cardiac damage . renal function, as demonstrated by         
creatinine and pah, was preserved and there was no delay in wound       
healing .                                                               
.I 270
.W
mesenteric vascular response to hypothermia .                           
  1. total and segmental resistances were studied in the mesenteries of 
37 dogs, and the effects of hypothermia, changes in blood viscosity and 
epinephrine on these resistances were compared .                        
  2. cooling to 15 c. caused an increased mesenteric resistance in 94   
per cent of animals with approximately 90 per cent of the resistance    
rise contributed by the arterial segment . small vessel resistance      
increased in 52 per cent . there was no evidence of venous constriction 
  3. blood viscosity appeared to play a minor role .                    
  4. it is suggested that hemorrhagic necrosis of the bowel wall is due 
to intense vasoconstriction in the precapillary vessels with subsequent 
distal anoxia and cellular damage .                                     
.I 271
.W
the response of dogs to perfusion and arrest of circulation at near zero
cerebral temperatures .                                                 
  1. twenty-six dogs were cooled by a whole body, closed chest perfusion
technique to end perfusion brain temperatures of 14.1 to 0.2
c. inclusive .                                                             
  2. there were no deaths in the group of six dogs in which the end     
perfusion brain temperature was 10.0 c. or higher .                     
  3. in the 17 dogs cooled to brain temperatures of 5.0 c. or less there
were nine deaths, of which five occurred quickly from cardiovascular    
failure, while four resulted from gross neurologic disturbances .       
  4. there was no evidence of aortic incompetence during whole body,    
closed chest hypothermic perfusion .                                    
  5. the lower the temperature of the brain at the end of the cooling   
perfusion, the greater was the passive transfer of heat from the        
environment .                                                           
.I 272
.W
effects of graded hemorrhage on cardiopulmonary functions of hypothermic
dogs .                                                                  
  experiments were conducted on anesthetized dogs subjected to moderate 
hypothermia (28 c.) and then bled in percentages of the estimated blood 
volume . respiratory work was not influenced by the degree of hemorrhage
pulmonary ventilation, respiratory rate and tidal volume were not     
influenced significantly as a result of blood withdrawal . physiologic  
dead space as a percentage of tidal volume increased with hemorrhage .  
oxygen consumption decreased as the hemorrhage was made more severe,    
whereas carbon dioxide production was unchanged, indicating a shift in  
the respiratory exchange ratio . cardiac output decreased 78 per cent   
from control level when 35 per cent of the estimated blood volume was   
withdrawn . systemic arterial pressures decreased markedly but heart    
rate was not changed as a result of blood withdrawal . comparison of    
responses to hemorrhage in hypothermia and normothermia is discussed .  
.I 273
.W
hypothermia in management of acute renal failure .                      
  1. prolonged hypothermia begun in the period immediately following the
infusion of epinephrine into the renal artery appears to give partial   
protection against renal damage .                                       
  2. shorter periods of hypothermia do not appear to be beneficial .    
  3. prolonged hypothermia at 28 to 30 c. has a mortality rate of 50    
percent
to 60 percent .
.I 274
.W
2803. effect of dosage on endotoxin-induced changes in the reticuloendothelial
system of rabbits
tissues were removed from rabbits 4
and 24 hr. following an i.v. injection of 5,
25, or 200 ug of endotoxin.  explants of
tissues from normal and injected animals
were grown in a coagulated plasma medium
and in medium containing 1 ug/ml of
endotoxin.  the migration and growth of cells
were observed during the following week
of incubation.  the inhibition or stimulation
of cells of the reticuloendothelial system
(res) at different host sites after endotoxin
administration depended on the dosage
and on the known capacity of different organs
to take up circulating endotoxin.  macro-
phage migration was suppressed in cultures
of spleen removed 4 hr. after a dose of
hibited by 200 ug, but macrophages in
lymph node, testis, and thymus showed an in-
crease in numbers, in extent of migration
and in phagocytic activity.  widespread
res stimulation was seen in tissues removed
24 hr after the largest dose.  in ad-
dition to the restoration of re cell activity in
spleen and lung there was a marked
increase in the migration of large phagocytic
cells from bone marrow, as well as
other organs.  macrophages from endotoxin-injected
animals were as sensitive as
normal macrophages to added endotoxin in vitro.
.I 275
.W
3075. vaccinia pneumonia in mice.  a light and electron microscopic and viral
assay study
swiss white mice between 2 and 4 days of age
developed generalized vaccinia viral
infection 2 to 7 days after intranasal inoculation.
gross and histologic evidence of
pneumonia was seen in more than 80% of
approximately 300 mice.  virus was re-
covered in relatively high titers from the
lungs (10   pfu per g) during the per-
iod when pneumonia developed; viremia
was also present, but virus titers in the
blood stream remained much below those
in the lungs.  histologically, vaccinia
pneumonia was characterized by large swollen
mononuclear cells giving rise to
marked widening of alveolar septa.  only
scattered neutrophils were noted, usually
in association with cell necrosis.  exudation
of edema fluid and red cells into al-
veoli was considered the result of viral
replication and cytopathic effect on cells
comprising alveolar septa.  various forms
of vaccinia virus were observed by elec-
tron microscopy within both 'type i' and
'type ii' alveolar lining cells, capillary
endothelial cells, and interstitial cells
within alveolar walls.  these infected inter-
stitial cells were probably derived from
fixed macrophages and were noted also
around bronchioles.  virus particles were
similarly observed in bronchiolar epi-
thelium and surrounding smooth muscle
cells.  the earliest pathologic ultrastruc-
tural change noted in virus infected cells
was intracellular edema, evidenced by
low electron density of the background
cytoplasmic material and dilatation of the
endoplasmic reticulum.  more extensive
changes resulted in cell necrosis with
release of virus particles into the extracellular space.
.I 276
.W
1161. electron microscopy of the bovine lungs  lattice and lamellar structures
in the alveolar lumen
in an electron microscopic study of samples
from the lungs of 20 normal cattle,
and from 4 with high mountain disease, lattice
and lamellar structures were obser-
ved free in the alveolar lumens in 25% of the
normal cattle and in 100% of those with
high mountain disease.  in one specimen, a
lattice and lamellar structure was ob-
served in a vacuole within an alveolar epithelial
cell.  all others were extracellular.
the shape and dimensions of these lattice and
lamellar structures were similar to
those described by other workers in experiments
involving intratracheal injections
of silicon and oleic and linoleic acid.  this is the
first report of the structures free
in the alveolar lumens of apparently normal cattle.
.I 277
.W
1162. electron microscopy of the bovine lungs  the blood-air barrier in acute
pulmonary emphysema
electron microscopic studies of experimentally
induced acute pulmonary emphy-
sema in 2 cows yielded the following findings
alveolar epithelial edema and cyto-
lysis, endothelial 'thinning' and cytolysis,
excessive elastic and collagenous alveo-
lar wall fibrosis, hyperplasia of alveolar
wall smooth muscle, numerous intra-
alveolar lattice and lamellar bodies, hyaline
membrane formation, hypertrophied
endothelial perikaryons, numerous alveolar
macrophages, and alveolar epithelial
secretion of an electron-dense amorphous mass.
it was postulated that the lattice
and lamellar bodies were a result of degenerating
alveolar epithelial cells.
.I 278
.W
1560. the ultrastructure of the lungs of lambs.  the relation of osmiophilic
inclusions and alveolar lining layer to fetal maturation and experimentally
produced respiratory distress
the lungs in 69 fetal and newborn lambs
were studied.  osmiophilic inclusion bodies
first appeared at about 121 days gestation
and their total number increased with
maturation.  normal surface activity of
lung extracts was detectable a few days
following the appearance of inclusion
bodies.  the excretory nature of the type ii
alveolar epithelial cell, the phospholipid
nature of the inclusion body content, the
decrease in the number of inclusion
bodies and their loss of density associated
with respiratory distress and with the
loss of normal surface activity of lung ex-
tracts provide strong evidence that
inclusion bodies are the source of pulmonary
surfactant.  a dense osmiophilic alveolar
lining layer in mammals is described.
since the presence of such a layer is
well correlated with surface tension values
and the number of inclusions, it is
suggested that this layer consists of surface
active substances.  the difficulty in
detecting such an osmiophilic layer in other
mammals is thought to be, at least
in part, due to species differences in the compo-
sition of materials constituting the
pulmonary surfactant.  cytologic immaturity
exists until lamb fetuses reach 135
days gestation.  this is considered to be the
basis for the susceptibility of immature
lambs to respiratory distress.  fibrin with
230 a periodicity is a component,
although a small one, of hyaline membranes in
lambs.  in view of the fact that mature
fibrin appearing as bundles of fibrils is rare-
ly found, it is suggested that the bulk
of the hyaline membrane is not a mature fi-
brin, but probably consists of polymers
of fibrinogen and serum protein.
.I 279
.W
1685. differentiation of exfoliative broncho-alveolar disease from desquamative
interstitial pneumonia
three cases are presented of the pulmonary
disease described by liebow and asso-
ciates and named by them desquamative
interstitial pneumonia.  the cases support
the existence of the entity and the contention
that it had not been previously described.
a differential diagnosis between exfoliative
bronchoalveolar disease and desquamative
interstitial pneumonia is submitted.  clinical,
roentgenologic and histopathologic mani-
festations are tabulated for each condition
and the differences between them are em-
phasized.  additional symptoms, changes
and phenomena not previously recorded are
introduced.  the most distinctive differences
between the 2 diseases were found in
the histopathologic manifestations.
.I 280
.W
3831. lysosomes in the rat sciatic nerve following crush
peripheral nerves undergoing degeneration
are favorable material for studying the
types, origins, and functions of lysosomes.
the following lysosomes are described
(a) autophagic vacuoles in altered schwann
cells.  within these vacuoles the myelin
and much of the axoplasm which it encloses
in the normal nerve are degraded (wal-
lerian degeneration).  the delimiting
membranes of the vacuoles apparently form
from myelin lamellae.  considered as
possible sources of their acid phosphatase are
golgi vesicles (primary lysosomes), lysosomes
of the dense body type, and the endo-
plasmic reticulum which lies close to the vacuoles.
(b) mebranous bodies that accu-
mulate focally in myelinated fibers in a zone extending
2 to 3 mm distal to the crush.
these appear to arise from the endoplasmic reticulum
in which demonstrable acid
phosphatase activity increases markedly within 2 hours
after the nerve is crushed.
(c) autophagic vacuoles in the axoplasm of fibers
proximal to the crush.  the break-
down of organelles within these vacuoles may have
significance for the reorganization
of the axoplasm preparatory to regeneration.
(d) phagocytic vacuoles of altered
schwann cells.  as myelin degeneration begins, some
axoplasm is exposed.  this
is apparently engulfed by the filopodia of the schwann
cells, and degraded within the
phagocytic vacuoles thus formed.  (e) multivesicular
bodies in the axoplasm of myelina-
ted fibers.  these are generally seen near the nodes of ranvier.
.I 281
.W
2431. histochemistry of surface epithelial and pleural mucins in mammalian
lung.  the demonstration of sialomucin in alveolar cuboidal epithelium
sialo- and sulfomucins have been demonstrated
histochemically in the surface
layer of the lung and pleura from rabbit,
syrian hamster, guinea pig, mouse, and
man.  sialomucin predominates in the distal
bronchial tree and covers the alveolar
epithelial surface.  the possible significance
of these observations is discussed.
.I 282
.W
617. maturation of postnatal human lung and the idiopathic respiratory distress
syndrome
maturation and pathologic alterations of the lung
in 19 newborn infants who died of idiopathic respiratory
distress syndrome were studied by light-and electron
microscopy.  normal lungs from 6 fetuses and 11 new-
borns served as controls.  in all infants with idiopathic
respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory bronchio-
les and alveolar ducts usually presented the histologic
pattern of mature lungs, i.e. they were predominantly
lined by type i cells, which also formed the epithelial
component of most blood-air barriers.  well expanded
alveoli exhibited a similar pattern, whereas collapsed
alveoli were lined by numerous type ii cells which par-
ticipated in the formation of poorly developed blood-air
barriers.  the capacity of type ii cells to produce in-
clusion bodies seemed to increase with survival beyond
the 14th hr of age.  secretion of inclusion bodies and
presumably surfactant into alveolar spaces did occur
but only in the lungs of infants older than 2 days.  how-
ever, this process was not accompanied by reduction
in the number of type ii cells per alveolus as in the nor-
mal lung.  the distribution of pathologic changes in idio-
pathic respiratory distress syndrome appeared to be
determined by the degree of maturity of the air sacs.
structurally mature air sacs were associated with da-
mage of epithelial lining and hyaline membrane forma-
tion.  in contrast, collapsed alveoli revealed an intact
epithelial lining and marked septal edema but were free
of hyaline membranes.  the findings of this study sug-
gested that transudation of plasma through well develop-
ed blood-air barriers was responsible for epithelial
damage and hyaline-membrane formation in air sacs.
they also suggested that alveolar collapse and presuma-
bly lack of surfactant were related to abnormal matura-
tion of the epithelial lining and to septal edema.
.I 283
.W
903. lattice structures and osmiophilic bodies in the developing
respiratory tissue of rats
osmiophilic inclusions have been observed in the
lungs of rats particularly in the 20-day rat embryo and
newborn up to 3 days post partum.  these inclusions
are present in the large alveolar cells as dense lamin-
ated structures of variable size and configuration.  they
generally consist of concentrically arranged membranes
and have the appearance of myelin figures, usually with
a dense center.  these osmiophilic inclusions are fre-
quently seen in direct contact with the cell membranes
and the alveolar space.  the alveolar space contains
numerous osmiophilic myelin figures which are thought
to originate from the intracellular osmiophilic inclu-
sions.  they may extrude through a channel formed in-
side the cell or by rupture of the cell membrane.  secre-
tion materials may occasionally be seen in the cyto-
plasm of the large alveolar epithelial cells.  these cells
appear to be in the process of degeneration.  their cell
surfaces are disrupted and the cytoplasm is continuous
with materials in the air space.  the lattice structure
in the alveolar space may originate from the cytoplas-
mic secretion material.  the cytoplasmic secretion ma-
terial in the cell and the lattice structures in the air
space disappear after the rats are 3 days old.  (i,t*)
.I 284
.W
454. xanthogranuloma (xanthoma) of choroid plexus.  the origin of foamy
(xanthoma) cells
a case of a 3-month-old infant with intense pro-
liferation of choroidal epithelium with foamy cells, a
second similar case in a 9-month-old infant with gener-
alized glycogen storage disease and a case of a 51-year-
old male with bilateral xanthogranuloma of choroid
plexus and proliferation of the choroidal epithelial cells
are discussed.  the pathogenesis of the foamy xanthoma
cells in the stroma of the choroid plexus, particularly,
is discussed.  the authors believe that the origin of foamy
cells and the mode of formation of such a xanthogranuloma
can be explained by the proliferative capability and the
phagocytic activity of the choroid epithelium.  choroidal
epithelial cells can be regarded as fixed macrophages
which becomes wandering phagocytes after detachment.
disintegration of these foamy cells then releases the
lipid content into the interstitium and provokes a re-
sponse of macrophages and multinucleated giant cells
of the foreign-body type.  hemorrhage is also considered
as a factor involved in the formation of xanthogranuloma.
.I 285
.W
4. mixed hematopoietic and pulmonary origin of 'alveolar macrophages' as
demonstrated by chromosome markers
the origin of alveolar macrophages was investiga-
ted in mouse chimeras in which the hematopoietic cells
could be identified by marker chromosomes.  by chro-
mosome analysis it was found that in both normal lungs
and in lungs exposed to an irritant, approximately two-
thirds of the dividing cells which could be recovered by
lung washing arose from the hematopoietic system and
one-third were of pulmonary origin.
.I 286
.W
632. pulmonary alveolar proteinosis.  a study using enzyme histochemistry,
electron microscopy, and surface tension measurement
lung biopsies from 4 patients with pulmonary al-
veolar proteinosis were studied using histochemical me-
thods, electron microscopy, and surface tension mea-
surement.  the lipid-rich intraalveolar fluid contained
material with the staining reactions and ultrastructure
of phospholipid.  although many alveoli were lined by
enzymatically active, secreting granular pneumonocy-
tes, extracts of proteinotic tissue were not surface
active, and, in fact, inhibited normal surfactant.  some
of the cells free in the intraalveolar material were de-
generating sloughed granular pneumonocytes.  at the
margins of the lesions were lipid-filled macrophages
which appear to play a role in the removal of the mate-
rial.  these observations indicate that alveolar protein-
osis is not a primary overproduction of surfactant and
are consistent with the concept that the alveolar clear-
ing process is defective in this disease.
.I 287
.W
1688. surface phenomena in lungs in health and disease
in summary, the authors have attempted
to bring together the multiple observations
which seem germane to the understanding
of surface phenomena in lungs in health
and disease.  to this end, the contributions
of anatomists and pathologists on the
fine structure of alveolar cells and their
lining are fundamental.  the concepts of
alveolar stability required the special
insights of physiologists who were concerned
with the causes of bubble stability as
they related to the particular problems posed
by a lung of several millions of bubbles
arranged in parallel.  soon the contributions
of the chemists became significant as
methods of identification and assay of the al-
veolar lining material were of interest.
clinicians asked what relevance these studies
had to atelectasis as it occurs in disease,
and soon the question of when the surfac-
tant appeared in development occurred to
those concerned with premature infants.
students of metabolism began to focus on
the lung as a site of phospholipid synthesis,
and their tools seem most promising at
this time in unearthing possible errors in
metabolism which may express themselves
in disease.  surgeons who undertake per-
fusion of the isolated lung ask the
requirements of that organ with respect to the
nutrients and environment of the alveolar
cells, and anesthesiologists inquire into
the possibilities of mechanical injury
to the alveoli during artificial respiration.
the problems posed to the reviewers
of a subject which touches so many disciplines
are obvious.  doubtless some pertinent
studies have been omitted although uninten-
tionally; others may have been
misinterpreted through lack of qualifications as spe-
cialists in all specialties.  the
authors hope they have provided evidence that the
forces of surface tension cannot
be ignored in an organ with an air-liquid interface
of some 70 m2.  they further hope
they have described some of the properties of
the film at the alveolar-air interface
which operate to produce stability of the alveoli.
they hold the belief that study of the
metabolism of the alveolar lining layer will
further their understanding of a number
of disease processes in which it may be
altered.  and lastly, they hope for much
closer communication between workers in
many disciplines who can elucidate this
remarkable subject best through cooperative
studies.
.I 288
.W
1689. alterations in pulmonary surface active lipids during ex-
posure to increased oxygen tension
the syndrome of progressive respiratory
distress, pulmonary edema, and increased
pulmonary surface tension was induced in
8 dogs by exposure to oxygen tensions
greater than 550 mm hg for 44.5 and 52
hours.  pulmonary surfactant was extracted
by endobronchial washing for measurement
of lipid composition and surface activity.
five dogs developed respiratory distress
without pulmonary edema.  in these dogs
endobronchial wash surface tension was
normal or slightly increased, and total
lipid distribution was essentially normal.
esterified fatty acids in the lecithin frac-
tion were consistently altered with a
reduction in palmitate and total saturated fatty
acids.  three dogs developed pulmonary
edema with increased surface tension, in-
creased total lipid and protein, and
relatively decreased total phospholipid in the
endobronchial washings.  esterified
fatty acids in the lecithin fraction were marked-
ly altered with palmitate levels about
1/3 normal.  esterified arachidonate was pre-
sent that was attributed to intra-alveolar
plasma.  electron micrographs of the lung
after oxygen exposure showed thickening
of alveolar basement membrane and altera-
tions in the structure of the lamellar bodies
of the type ii alveolar epithelial cells.
.I 289
.W
3805. cisternal fluid oxygen tension in man
measurement of cerebral oxygen tension
in man has been hampered by technical dif-
ficulties.  the authors present a method
in which a beckman microelectrode was
introduced into the cisterna magna and
oxygen tension measured, the hypothesis
being that measurement of oxygen tension
in a fluid which equilibrates with the
average cerebral oxygen tension should
give reliable measure of cerebral oxygen
tension.  in their subjects, inhalation of
pure oxygen produced an increase in the
oxygen tension in the cisternal fluid as
well as in the arterial blood without any
alteration of the oxygen tension in the
bulb of the internal jugular vein, whereas
inhalation of 95% oxygen and 5% carbon
dioxide increased the oxygen tension in the
cisternal fluid as well as in the arterial
and venous blood.  5% carbon dioxide in
air produced an increase in the cisternal
oxygen tension; a fall in arterial blood
pressure associated with the introduction
of the suboccipital needle was accom-
panied by a decrease in cisternal oxygen
tension which then rose simultaneously with
the increase in arterial blood pressure
that followed infusion of dextran.  intravenous
injection of xanthinol niacinate induced
in all patients a more or less pronounced fall
in arterial blood pressure and at the
same time the cisternal oxygen tension fell;
administration of aramine was associated
with a rise in arterial blood pressure
plus a rise in cisternal oxygen tension.
.I 290
.W
4181. cerebrospinal fluid in man native to high altitude
csf ph was shown in a prior report to
remain essentially constant during 8 days
of acclimatization to 3,800 m.  in order
to further evaluate the possible role of
csf acid-base equilibria in the regulation
of respiration, 20 peruvian andean na-
tives were studied at altitudes of
3,720-4,820 m.  in 10 subjects at 3,720 m, means
were  csf ph 7.327, pco, 43, hco3-21.5,
na+136, k+2.6, cl-124, lactate 30 mg/
100 ml.  arterial blood  ph 7.43, pco, 32.5,
hco3-21.3, na+136, k+4.2, cl-107,
hematocrit 49, sao, 89.6.  in 6 subjects at
4,545 m and 4 at 4,820 m csf values
were not significantly different; mean arterial
pco, was 32.6 and 32.3, respectively.
the only significant variations with altitude
were the expected lowering of pao, to
47 and 43.5 mm hg, and of sao, to 84.2 and
80.7, and increase of hematocrit to
67% and 75%, respectively.  the natives
differed from recently acclimatized sea-
level residents in showing less ventilation
(higher pco,) in response to the ex-
isting hypoxia, and less alkaline arterial
blood.  the difference appears to relate
to peripheral chemoreceptor response
to hypoxia rather than central medullary
chemoreceptor.
.I 291
.W
1116. na, k, ca, mg, and cl concentrations in choroid plexus fluid
and cisternal fluid compared with plasma ultrafiltrate
in 7 cats the concentrations of na,
k, ca, mg, and cl were measured in plasma
ultrafiltrate, newly formed choroid
plexus fluid, and cisterna magna fluid.  the
choroid plexus fluid did not differ
from plasma ultrafiltrate in cl and k concentra-
tion but contained higher na, markedly
higher mg, and lower ca concentrations
than the ultrafiltrate.  cisterna magna
fluid differed from the ultrafiltrate with
respect to all 5 electrolytes, containing
higher concentrations of cl, na, and mg
and lower concentrations of k and
ca.  it differed from choroid plexus fluid in con-
taining a higher concentration of cl but
lower concentrations of k, ca, and
mg.  hco3-concentration, calculated on the
basis of the charge balance, was 7 mm/kg
h2o higher in choroid plexus fluid than
in cisterna magna fluid, suggesting an ele-
vated ph at the former site.  without
measurement of the potential difference be-
tween the csf and plasma, definitive
conclusions could not be drawn as to which
cations were actively transported.  the fact
that the distribution ratio between cerebro-
spinal fluid and ultrafiltrate of one divalent
cation was in the opposite direction
from that of the other, and that this was
also true of the monovalent cations, was
taken as evidence that the mechanisms
involved in cation transfer are quite selec-
tive.  though not proven, active transport
was considered the most likely explana-
tion of these findings.  the data suggest
that these specific transfer mechanisms
subserve a homeostatic function with
regard to mg and k in the cerebrospinal fluid.
.I 292
.W
3230. cerebral hemodynamics, blood gases, and electrolytes
during breath-holding and the valsalva maneuver
continuous recordings of arterial and
internal jugular blood oxygen tension, oxy-
gen saturation, carbon dioxide tension,
ph, sodium and potassium, together with
peco2, blood pressure, and
electroencephalogram were obtained to compare the
effects of inspiratory and expiratory
breath-holding and the valsalva maneuver on
the cerebral circulation and cerebral
oxygen availability in man.  during the inter-
val of tolerated breath-holding for
69 seconds or less, jugular venous oxygen tension
was increased owing to increased
cerebral blood flow resulting from an increase
of arterial carbon dioxide tension.
there was a statistically significant correlation
between changes in jpo2 and paco2,
which proved to be more or less linear for
both increases and decreases of paco2 4
mm. above and below control levels.  no
threshold was found for changes in paco2
altering effective cerebral perfusion and
cerebral venous po2, extremely small
changes in paco2 (less than 1 mm. hg)
altered cerebral oxygen availability within
10 to 20 seconds.  during the valsalva
maneuver a consistent reduction of jugular
oxygen tension was found associated
with the sudden fall in arterial blood
pressure and reduction of arterial carbon
dioxide tension.  the rapid changes in
cerebral hemodynamics and cerebral oxy-
gen availability during the procedure
are briefly discussed.
.I 293
.W
2344. respiratory and cardiovascular changes during rapid spon-
taneous variations of ventricular fluid pressure in pa-
tients with intracranial hypertension
in patients with intracranial hypertension
the ventricular fluid pressure (vfp)
curve is characterized by 3 main forms
of spontaneous variations.  two of these
forms are of a rhythmical nature, and
are here called 1-per-minute waves and 6-
per-minute waves, respectively, in
accordance with the dominating frequency.
the third form - irregularly appearing
waves of large amplitude and duration -
is called plateau waves in accordance
with the usual shape of the fluctuations.
respiratory and cardio-vascular changes
accompanying these variations of the vfp
were studied by simultaneous recording,
in various combinations, of the vfp, the
pulmonary ventilation, the pco2 of the
expiratory air, the arterial and the venous
blood pressure, and the pulse frequency.
it was found that the rhythmic vfp vari-
ations of the 1-per-minute type occurred
synchronously with the respiratory peri-
ods in cheyne-stokes breathing.
synchronously appearing variations in systemic
blood pressure, in pulse frequency,
as well as in consciousness and in muscular
tone of the limbs were also noted.  the
respiratory midposition shifted towards the
inspiratory side during the periods of
hyperpnoea.  the 6-per-minute waves were
entirely synchronous with variations
in the systemic arterial blood pressure of the
traube-hering-mayer type.  long
sequences of these waves were observed only
when the vfp level was considerably
elevated.  the plateau waves were not accom-
panied by corresponding elevations of
the arterial or venous systemic blood pres-
sure.  simultaneously with the crests
of the plateau waves sudden changes often
occurred in the pulse frequency (from
bradycardia to tachycardia), and in the res-
piratory pattern, sometimes also in the
degree of consciousness and in the muscu-
lar tone.  there were also long sequences
of 6-per-minute waves.  the deep, irre-
gular breathing seen in this stage induced
a considerable hypocapnia preceeding
the final critical fall in the vfp ending the
plateau wave.  in most instances, how-
ever, this fall did not begin until several
minutes after the appearance of the hypo-
capnia.
.I 294
.W
82. central nervous system lesions in rats
exposed to oxygen at high pressure
adult female rats paralyzed by repeated exposures
to oxygen at high pressure were found to have cns le-
sions of 2 types  (1) focal necrosis of individual neurons
within certain nuclear groups, and (2) complete or partial
necrosis of nuclear groups with frequent damage to mye-
lin, axons, and glia in the area involved.  both types
were usually bilateral and symmetrical.  lesions of the
first type were found consistently in the superior olivary
complex, ventral cochlear nuclei, and nuclei of the spinal
tract of cranial nerve v.  lesions of the second type were
found consistently in the substantia nigra and globus pal-
lidus, were frequent in the rhinencephalon, and never
occurred in the neocortex.
.I 295
.W
747. electrode size and tissue po2 measurement in rats exposed
to air or high pressure oxygen
a comparison has been made of values of
po2 recorded in several rat tissues with
60-u or 330-u flexible gold electrodes.
although qualitatively both sizes of elec-
trodes give similar results, the quantitative
values of po2 differ.  such large differ-
ences as are found in some cases between
electrodes varying only in physical di-
mensions are thought to reflect the amount
of trauma caused in the tissue under in-
vestigation due to electrode insertion.
errors in po2 estimations due to tissue da-
mage are considered to outweigh any other
errors such as those due to electrode
calibration.  soft, highly vascular tissues,
such as liver, kidney and spleen, which
show macroscopic bruising over quite a
large area when electrodes are inserted,
show the greatest difference in estimations
of the po2 value.  recordings of tissue
po2 were made while animals breathed air
and when compressed to 4 or 5 atm. in
pure oxygen, and the pattern of response of
tissue po2 to such exposure of the ani-
mal to high pressures of oxygen is described.
.I 296
.W
3384. adrenergic effects in splenic po2 of rats in air or oxygen
at 5 atmospheres
oxygen tensions have been measured
in the spleens of rats breathing air and during
exposure of the animals to 5 atm abs
of oxygen (hpo).  the response of splenic po2
to compression was complex, usually
reaching a peak value immediately after com-
pression, then falling to a lower value.
this form of response has been termed a
hump response.  after adrenalectomy
or bretylium tosylate injection the hump res-
ponse of po2 after compression was
almost abolished, and the values of splenic po2
at 5 atm were considerably higher
than in control animals.  a combination of adrena-
lectomy and bretylium tosylate also
markedly reduced the number of hump responses,
but unexpectedly significantly lowered
splenic oxygen tensions, both when the ani-
mals were under ambient conditions
or at 5 atm of oxygen.  cardiac rate and blood
pressure were studied in an attempt
to find the explanation of this latter effect, and
while blood pressure was the same
in adrenalectomized rats and control rats after
bretylium injection, adrenalectomy
potentiated the bradycardia produced by brety-
lium tosylate.
.I 297
.W
10642. the effects of antioxidants on high pressure oxygen toxicity
several commonly used antioxidants have
been tested for their effect against poison-
ing due to high pressures of oxygen (ohp).
the tests used were preconclusive pe-
riod and survival time of mice at 5 atm
absolute oxygen, lung damage in rats ex-
posed to 5 atm oxygen for 1 hr., and post
ohp paralysis in rats following deep
pentobarbital-na anesthesia and ohp at 4
atm for 30 min.  2,5-bis (1,1-dimethyl-
propyl) hydroquinone gave excellent
protection against ohp toxicity in all tests,
and several other antioxidants also
protected against ohp toxicity but their potency
and effectiveness varied for the
different criteria of oxygen poisoning tested in the
experiments.
.I 298
.W
3716. glycolytic control mechanisms. i. inhibition of glycolysis
by acetate and pyruvate in the isolated, perfused rat heart
acetate or pyruvate had similar effects
on the over-all metabolism of glucose.  gly-
colytic flux was decreased in both the
presence and absence of insulin, glucose
oxidation was greatly decreased, and
the conversion of glucose to glycogen and lac-
tate was promoted.  glucose phosphorylation
was decreased in the presence but not
in the absence of insulin.  hexokinase,
phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde phos-
phate dehydrogenase, and pyruvic kinase
are far displaced from equilibrium, while
the other enzymic steps of glycolysis
are maintained either at equilibrium or fairly
close to equilibrium.  in different metabolic
situations, glycolytic flux may be affec-
ted by those steps which are far displaced
from equilibrium.  increased levels of
the hexose monophosphates, and decreased
levels of the other glycolytic inter-
mediates between fructose 1,6-diphosphate
and pyruvate after the addition of 10 mm
acetate indicate that glycolytic flux was
decreased by inhibition of phosphofructo-
kinase.  after the addition of 10 mm pyruvate,
fructose 1,6-diphosphate, and triose-
phosphate accumulated as a result of an
inhibition of either glyceraldehyde phosphate
dehydrogenase or phosphoglyceric kinase.
acetate had little effect on the total con-
tent of oxidized or reduced di- or
triphosphopyridine nucleotides, but slightly de-
creased the ratio of nad to nadh2
in the cytoplasm, as estimated from the ratios
of lactate to pyruvate and a-glycerophosphate
to dihydroxyacetone phosphate.  pyru-
vate increased the total content of nadh2
and nadph2 as shown both by an increase
of fluorescence in the intact heart, and by
tissue analyses, but the ratio of nad to
nadii2 in the cytoplasm was greatly
increased.  these results demonstrate com-
partmentation of pyridine nucleotides
between cytoplasm and mitochondria in the
intact cell.  after the addition of acetate,
citrate was the only intermediate of the
citric acid cycle which increased greatly
in amount, while oxaloacetate levels de-
creased.  after the addition of pyruvate,
the levels of citrate, a-ketoglutarate, ma-
late, and oxaloacetate were all greatly
elevated.  the glutamic-oxaloacetate trans-
aminase reaction as measured from the
total contents of the reactants in the tissue
remained close to equilibrium.  changes
in the concentrations of the adenine nu-
cleotides were insufficient to account for
the inhibition of phosphofructokinase, but
the results are consistent with control at this
step being mediated by citrate.
.I 299
.W
244. oxygen tension in human malignant disease under hyperbaric
conditions
oxygen tensions were recorded continuously
in tumours and normal tissues of 34 pa-
tients pressurized in pure oxygen to 4 atmospheres
absolute.  mean rises to 620
mm. hg and 320 mm. hg for tumours and normal tissues
respectively were recorded.
with patients breathing air at atmospheric
pressure 22/90 (24%) of tumour elec-
trodes registered po2values of less than 4 mm. hg
compared to only 2/39 (5%) of normal
tissue electrodes.  the results obtained
suggest that oxygen polarography as a meth-
od for determining po2 in 'solid' tissues
in vivo is complicated by many artefacts -
particularly tissue damage due to electrode
trauma - which reduce its value to clin-
ical research concerned with accurate
information of absolute po2 values in intact
tissues.
.I 300
.W
7839.cortical ph and the blood-brain barrier
a method was described for measuring
the ph, dc and ac potentials concurrently
on the cerebral cortex of the adult cat,
under conditions of controlled ventilation.
kittens and rabbits were also studied.
the cortical ph response to i.v. nahco3
was acidic and was accompanied by a
dc negativity, while the blood became alkaline.
such an acidic response was present in
the rabbit and kitten.  it was not present
in a number of other tissues in the cat,
including the dura.  the cortical acidic
response was not affected, qualitatively,
by i.v. acetazolamide, prolonged hypoxia
or 10% (v/v) co2.  it was reduced reversibly
by 20% (v/v) co2.  it was not affected
by removal of the arachnoid membrane.
the cortical ph response to an i.v. nh4+
salt solution was complex.  nh4c1 did not
produce an alkaline response.  the cortical
ph response to an alkaline or an acidic
sodium phosphate solution was augmented
but not changed in its direction following
treatment of the cortex with n-butanol.
the results were interpreted in terms of
a restriction of hco3- by the blood-brain
barrier, through which co2 can pass.  this
restriction is probably non-specific for
inorganic ions, and perhaps for other
substances.  it does not appear to be related
to a low cerebral extracellular space,
and is independent of substantial oxidative metabolism.
.I 301
.W
7083. brain damage and paralysis in animals exposed to high pressure oxygen -
pharmacological and biochemical observations
single exposures of high pressure oxygen
(ohp) at 30-66  gauge pressure caused
cns damage and paralysis in rats and mice
but guinea-pigs, rabbits, and man did
not show such sequelae.  the cns damage
in rats was greatly increased by cns-de-
pressant drugs (pentobarbital, paraldehyde,
n2o and phencyclidine) given before ex-
posure to ohp.  the cns lesions were also
potentiated by raised respired pco2, by
acetazolamide and by nh4c1, whilst protection
was afforded by methaemoglobinae-
mia by tham, by 2 4-dinitrophenol and by
serotonin against the barbiturate and
co2 potentiation of ohp brain damage.
ohp-induced brain damage was not modified
by hypothermia (cp2), electroconvulsive
shock treatment during ohp, cerebral x-
irradiation, adrenalectomy or cortisone,
slow decompression rates, spinal block
with local anaesthetic, 'conditioning' of
rats to ohp, hyper- and hypoglycaemia, or
alterations in tissue histamine levels.
the results are discussed in relation to pos-
sible biochemical mechanisms and
theories of oxygen poisoning.
.I 302
.W
8914. the effect of hypoxia on oxygen consumption of cerebral
cortex, liver slices and of diaphragm in vitro during post-
natal development of the rat
oxygen consumption of slices from the liver
and cerebral cortex and of the cut dia-
phragm was determined in rats aged 5, 10,
14, 20 and 25 days and in adult animals.
under hypoxic conditions (gas phase 10%
oxygen, 90% nitrogen) oxygen consumption
of liver slices and diaghragm is decreased
by about 25% in all age groups.  hypoxia,
however, did not affect oxygen consumption
of slices of the cortex from 5-day-old
rats and its inhibitory effect only appeared
later as the normal oxygen consumption
started to rise.  the inhibitory effect of
hypoxia was greatest in adult animals.
.I 303
.W
5407. hypoxic-hypercapnic interaction in subjects with bilateral
cerebral dysfunction
to analyze cerebral influences modifying
autonomic respiratory responses, the
authors compared normals and patients
with bilateral pyramidal tract disease for
their ventilatory response to hypoxia and
hypoxia-hypercapnia.  during eucapnia,
the 2 groups showed similar hypoxic
responses.  during hypercapnia, the ventilatory
response to hypoxia was greater in the
brain-damaged subjects.  this apparent aug-
mentation, however, was due entirely
to anoxia interacting with an abnormally fa-
cilitated carbon dioxide sensitivity
compared with normals, brain-damaged patients
at pao,90-100 mm hg showed an 85%
greater co2 response, and at pao,50mm hg
showed a 79% greater co2 response.
since cerebral dysfunction facilitated the ven-
tilatory response to hypoxia-hypercapnia
combined but not the response to hypoxia
alone, the results imply that the 2
respiratory stimuli interact centrally rather than
peripherally.
.I 304
.W
3917. plasma free fatty acid and blood sugar levels in newborn
infants and their mothers
simultaneous plasma free fatty acid (ffa)
and blood sugar levels were determined
for fasting newborn infants during the first
24 hours of life, for their cord bloods,
and for their mothers at delivery.  the
following observations were made.  in con-
trol infants the mean ffa level rose about
three times the cord level after birth
and was accompanied by a 25% drop in the
mean blood sugar level.  thereafter, the
mean blood sugar level remained relatively
constant, but the mean ffa level varied
from 2.5 to 3 times the cord level.  there
was no significant correlation between the
length of maternal fasting prior to delivery
and the infant ffa level; there was,
however, a significant negative correlation
between the length of maternal fasting
prior to delivery and the infant blood sugar
level at 24 hours of age.  high ffa levels
occurred in the infants of obese mothers
and low levels were observed in infants with
delayed respirations, in infants of preeclamptic
mothers, and in infants of diabetic
mothers.
.I 305
.W
2933. the essential fatty acid requirement of infants and the
assessment of their dietary intake of linoleate by serum
fatty acid analysis
the content of polyunsaturated fatty acids
in serum total fatty acids was related
to the dietary intake of linoleate in 243 infants
two to four months of age and in 197
infants eleven to twelve months of age.  the
curves relating triene tetraene ratio
to dietary linoleate indicated approximately
1 per cent of total calories as minimal
linoleate requirement.  the exponential
equations relating dienoic, trienoic and
tetraenoic acids to dietary linoleate were
derived by computer methods.  these
yielded constants from which the minimal
nutrient requirement could be calculated.
the best estimates were obtained from the
triene and tetraene data for two to four
months' old infants and were found to be
approximately 1.4 per cent of the caloric
intake.  the nutritive status with respect to
linoleate may be estimated by means
of logarithmic regression equations.  the
equation for two to four months' old infants
is  log 10 dietary linoleate = -1.087 + 0.0432
(di - tri + tetra).  the data for eleven to
twelve months' old infants were found to have
greater scatter and give lower triene
tetraene ratios at comparable linoleate intakes.
the scatter and displacement are
considered to be due to supplements of solid food
to the basic diet not considered in
the calculated dietary linoleate.
.I 306
.W
74. analytic study of the a- and b-lipoprotein micellar groups
and of nonesterified fatty acids of the plasma in normal pregnancy
an analytical study has been made on 39
patients, using a chemical method which
allows the simultaneous detailed evaluation
of the lipidic and a- and b-liproproteinic
fractions of the plasma.  in addition the
non-esterified fatty acids have been titrated,
the b-proteins and the uric acid assayed,
and numerous indices and deducible ratios
made from the data obtained.  the existence
of quantitative dyslipidemia has been
proven, starting gradually, especially in the
4th-5th month of pregnancy, and most-
ly regarding the b-lipoproteins, prevalently
the slow subfractions, greater increase
of glycerides than phosphatides and cholesterol,
but with a non-proportional in-
crease of b-proteins (lower proteinic content).
it has, moreover, been noted that
there is a prevalent rise of free cholesterol in
the fraction of b-lipoproteins with
a reduction of the total esterification coefficient.
the morphological picture of the
lipidic rate in pregnancy shows characteristics
which, according to the authors,
are like those to be seen in the lipidic rate of
male presenility.
.I 307
.W
75. behavior of polyunsaturated fatty acids in physiological
pregnancy
by the enzymatic lipoxidase method of
macgee et al., the author measured polyun-
satured fatty acids (p.f.a.) in healthy
pregnant women at full term of pregnancy.
before labour there are in the blood 75-95
mg.% of p.f.a., i.e. 10-15% more
than in non-pregnant women; during labour
p.f.a. increase very much, 100-137
mg.%, about 50% more than before labour.
.I 308
.W
5196. effects of nutritional deficiency of unsaturated fats on
the distribution of fatty acids in rat liver mitochondrial phospholipids
the fatty acid composition of liver mitochondrial
phospholipids from rats rendered
deficient in essential unsaturated fatty acids
has been determined, and compared
with that of rats fed a diet containing corn oil.
in addition to marked reductions in
the amounts of linoleic and arachidonic acids
esterified at the b-position of ethanol-
amine-, inositol-, and choline glycerophosphatides,
the deficiency resulted in ex-
tensive changes in the distribution of saturated
acids at both the a- and b-positions.
palmitoleic and oleic acids were increased in
amount in fat deficiency, and large
amounts of docosatrienoic acids appeared in
these 3 phospholipids.  the fatty acids
of the sphingomyelins were not altered as a
result of essential fatty acid deficiency.
the data demonstrate that each phospholipid
is unique in the way in which its fatty
acid moieties change in response to feeding
a fat deficient diet.
.I 309
.W
3204. interventricular septal defects with aortic insufficiency
sanchez f.-villaran e.
the coincidence of these 2 malformations
permits their diagnosis provided that a
careful evaluation is made of the hemodynamic
and oximetric data, on the basis of
specific auscultatory features.  even then, a
differentiation from other cardiopathies
patent ductus arteriosus with/without pulmonary
hypertension, aortopulmonary sep-
tal defect, interventricular communication,
truncus arteriosus, aneurysm of the
sinus aortae ruptured into right cavities - is
not simple.  for this an analysis of the
course of the syndrome together with the
information supplied by phonocardiography,
catheterization, angiocardiography, radiology
and ecg (in this order of importance)
are indispensable.  an analysis is made of 5 cases
in which, in the absence of ana-
tomical confirmation, concrete data were obtained
on which to base the diagnosis.